Let me introduce myself.
My name is Vadim Karpusenko.
I work at Microsoft.
Yeah, I know [LAUGH] as Cloud Developer
Advocate, and I'm specializing in
Azure Machine Learning, Deep Learning,
Artificial Intelligence, and
High Performance Computing as
well as Quantum Computing.
So all of that is kinda part of my job or
responsibilities.
Before working at Microsoft as
Developer Relations, Advocate,
I was a technical evangelist at Intel and
basically was teaching high performance
computing, parallel programming,
code optimization, all of that.
And my background, it's actually physics.
[LAUGH] So that's why the quantum
computing is coming from.
I was doing molecular dynamic simulations,
optimized it for
large clusters and just basically was
playing around with huge molecules.
But realize that our code is not
super optimized for parallelism and
kinda switch to figuring out how
to optimize it more, well, better.
And that basically lead the transition,
my transition from
physics to high performance computing and
now machine learning.
And the thing is it's interesting
that in physics, a lot of
problems now we're trying to approach it
from a machine learning perspective and
gonna figure out the way how we can apply
machine learning to physics problems.
So even just, what,
about a month ago, I was in Italy.
We had an open hack with CERN researchers.
Basically figuring out the way how you can
predict the decay of particular particles,
right, and
recognize one event from another and
kinda come up with a classifier,
which can do it for you automatically.
Because right now, in physics,
it's actually problem and
takes a lot of compute resources, right?
But with machine learning, you can
switch to something maybe which have
bigger footprint, memory footprint, but
at the same time using less compute.
Wow, fun stuff, fun stuff, so anyway,
at the same time, although I'm
having kinda this solid mathematics
background, this course,
I will try to base myself down and
not to go too deep into maths.
And at least, that's my promise but
I might get deviate a little bit deeper so
please stop me and basically say yeah,
you're going too deep.
I will try to basically
give the principle,
explain the concepts without
deviating too deep into mathematics.
And I think it's still gonna be pretty
useful because we'll show a lot of demos,
practical demos.
So by the way,
if you go to the top Vadikus/practicalDL,
that's the URL for the course, right here,
github.com/Vadikus/practicalDL.
So the plan is to use Jupyter Notebooks,
so Python is prerequisite for this course.
I will be using Python mostly but if you
are more familiar with the JavaScript,
you can still use JavaScript
with Keras and TensorFlow 2.0.
But you will have to go,
it's on github, let me just find it.
github, TensorFlow js examples, so
on their TensorFlow,
There is a tfjs-example and
there are tons of examples which well,
gonna be used in class as well but
I will show how to do everything
in Python for instance.
mnist datasets,
that's the handwritten digits.
And we should come up with a model
which can recognize those digits.
But well, I will be talking
about this during the class.
So all of those examples, if you,
as I said more familiar with JavaScript,
you can just grab files from here and
still play with the models we will
be discussing during the class.
A little bit about my setup,
so I like to draw [LAUGH] and
as you will see, I will be using my,
Surface, one second,
let me just log in quickly.
All right, right here so if I
just write something like this,
you should see it on your screen as well.
I basically, yeah,
will allow me to draw any diagrams and
explain what I'm talking about,
all of that.
So that's gonna be one part of our setup.
Also for the code itself,
I will be using Jupyter notebooks.
So if you just cloned the repository,
you will see all of those ipynb files.
That's your interactive
Python notebook files.
And to start Jupyter notebook, first of
all, of course, you need to install it.
To install a Jupyter notebook, if you just
look at the README file on the GitHub if
you click on installation instructions, it
should redirect you to jupyter home page.
And if you just follow those instructions,
you can install it directly with pip,
pip install.
Jupyter does the commands or
pip3 if you're using Python 3.
Well, usually pip should
be resulting into pip3.
But if you're not familiar with
the package management in Python,
I heavily recommend to install Anaconda.
So conda will basically
preserve the state and
will not mess with other Python
libraries in your system.
And no matter if you own Linux on Mac or
Windows,
it will try to create this isolated
environment for all the Python packages.
And then inside this environment,
you can install Jupyter.
I already have everything installed.
So right now if I just type
jupyter notebook and dot,
it will start jupyter server in my folder
where I have basically
a GitHub repository cloned.